Characters:
Narrator: A narrator, folky, engaging 
Vincent: Giant, thoughtful, loving. 
Goram: Giant, strong, brutish, the destroyer, 
Avona: 

Storm Music etc. 
Avona dancing around in the background throughout.  


Narrator: 
	Vincent and Goram, huge beasts, sent to the ground 
	To stretch their minds a little father.
	Sent here, earth, our fragile sphere,
	this planet that we hold dear. 
	Long before man walked this ground
	and all around was nature, fresh air, beautiful sound.
	But that’s not the only reason they had to go. 
	oh no. Boy do these giants bicker. 
	and their father’s temper got quicker and quicker.
	he put up, until he couldn’t get any sicker.
	And so he sent them to earth, to protect his ticker.
	They landed by boat, near here, in the sea
	Each oar the size of a tree !
	And so they have to row to get where they want to go. 
	But being new, it’s not like they know 
	what’s around, or how to find dry ground.
	And so here we are, watch nature’s peace unravel 
	As these two monsters argue about which way to travel. 
	As good a time as any then, to introduce our two men. 
	
	Here’s Vincent he’s a pretty tall guy	[Actions mirror words throughout song]
Vincent: 
	Hi [Nervous sounding]
Narrator:
	He’s a giant…hearted man, with a big arm span	
	Sees beauty in the world wherever he can
	I’ve got to say I’m a pretty big fan
	He’s caring and sea faring with his brother, Goram. 
	The weaker of the two…True. 
	But full of love.
	Sent from above by a dad
	his take on it ?
	Goram good, Vincent bad. 
	Why couldn’t Vincent just be strong and go along 
	with giant kinds preference for sport over song. 
	He was more understood by his mother 
	and never really did recover from her untimely death       
	Seeing that last…pained…breath….
	So yes, a hideous giant still. 
	But like it or not, one with a soft spot. 

	Here’s Goram, he’s a pretty big fellow.
Goram: 
	Hello. [Booming powerful voice]
Narrator:
	His father’s best, musclebound, huge chest, lazy and prone to rest.
	He thinks he’s the pinnacle, the greatest. 
	I protest. 
	You’ll find him winding up Vincent, bullying him and claiming it jest. 
	Your typical fairy tale brute
	Expect Goram at the top of Jack’s beanstalk route.
	And with all the wrath of Goliath, he’d chase you away.
	but when there’s work to be done he’s hitting the hay. 
	Powerful. Headstrong too
	Is not interested in hearing about you. 
	It’s he that young giants aspire to be 
	looking up at his arms with glee. 
	Telling tales full of hyperbole
	of the time Goram fought away that dragon, setting his rage free. 
	But what they don’t see is the debris left behind. 
	How he doesn’t care for the rest of his kind 
	A self serving, unnerving narcissist that’s good with a fist.  

Break for some music.

Vincent:
	If you really want to get to land Goram, then I’m pretty sure that this direction is the right way to go. 

Goram:
	Of course I want to get to land, we’ve been out here for weeks going in circles. But that clearly isn’t the way to go, look at where the sun is idiot, we were rowing towards it this morning and now this afternoon you want to row away from it !  

Vincent: (Looks despondent and tired of Goram’s shit.)
	 Fine, have it your way. I for one have grown to love the sea, with all the power that it holds in its waves. This unpredictable surface on which our fragile vessel suspends us, the water lapping at its sides. Imagine what beauty must feed this ocean. How divine, how sublime a being to create such majesty.

Goram: 
	What rubbish you speak Vincent. Ever since we were sent on this chore we have done nothing but fight the sea. It’s a nuisance to control and a force to be beat. The sooner we get off it the better. If there is any land to be found on this planet that is, I’ve half a mind to think we were sent here just so father could get you out of his hair for a bit.

Vincent:
	And then what do you suppose you’re here for ?

Goram:
	Well, I must be here to look after you. Protect you from any particularly terrifying fish. We wouldn’t want your toes getting bitten would we? 

Vincent:
	I’m more than capable of fighting off a fish. 

Goram:
	I’m not so sure, maybe if you’d row a little harder you could build the strength and we’d reach land before the end of the century. 

Probably Vincent is doing all the rowing anyway

Vincent: 
	Why are you so concerned about reaching land anyway. It’s beautiful out here. We were sent here to learn, what better place to consider the world than in such serenity. [make longer (more descriptive)]

Goram: 
	I’m just less used to being alone than you. There’s nothing to look at but water out here. Who knows, there might be some female company on the land. That’s the sort of beauty that I want.

Vincent: 
	Well that’s not what we’re here for. 

Goram:
	Its not what you’re here for, but only because you know you’ll turn to stone the first time you set eyes on a woman and she isn’t impressed by your puny frame. 

Vincent: 
	I have no intention of having my heart broken Goram. You take me for some pathetic lost-cause of a giant. 

Goram: 
	And you claim otherwise ?

Vincent: 
	Yes I claim otherwise. And besides, your mindlessness will be your downfall, there’s more to a man than his physicality.

Goram:
	ha, alright Vincent brother, very well. More to a man than these ! [Goram shows off his muscles]

Lets have a bit of a rowing along musical interlude here. Bird noises at the end ?

Goram:
	What’s that noise !

Vincent:
	Birds. 

Goram:
	Well then, it must be that way.

Vincent looks like “yeah that’s what I said already jeeeezz” 	
Here, “that way” is the same direction that Vincent suggested at the start. The row to shore. 


Vincent: [noticing]
	Goram, you’ve proved me wrong, the land also offers us boundless beauty. Look how the valleys cut out the shape of rolling hills, gently leading ones eyes to the horizon, the endless beckoning to go a few steps further, to see what lies behind the next turfy mound. The green grass captivatingly peppered with the bright colour of the flowers. And from here we can still see the glorious sea, interacting with the land, it’s waves gently crashing onto the golden beaches. The rivers barrel down towards the shores, replenishing the ocean of it’s evaporated lifeblood, with the ever present sun and pregnant clouds completing the cycle that life here relies on. What an opportunity father has gifted us with. But Goram, loveliest of all can you… 
Interrupts.  
Goram:
	yeah, good stuff. You set up camp, and make food. I’m busy.  [lays down on floor]

Vincent: 
	I can’t set up alone there’s too much to do. Anyway I was just going to ask you if you can…

Goram: 
	Like what?

Vincent: 
	Well we have to put the tent up. 

Goram:
	That’s easy 

Vincent: 
	and light a fire 

Goram:
	Easy 

Vincent:
	and find some food to eat. 

Goram:
	Easy easy easy easy easy. 

Vincent:
	and unpack the boxes 

Goram:
	Eeeeeeeeeeeasy!

Vincent:
	Well, if its all so easy then why don’t you help rather than being [FANCY WORD]  , now could you please answer my question. It’s so glorious, am I the only one that….

Goram:
	[MISUNDERSTANDS WHAT WORD MEANS]. [pause] Fine, I’ll put the camp together so long as you promise to just leave me alone afterwards. 

Vincent:
	Fine 

Goram:
	Good. Go on then, what’s this question?

DIIING for narrators entrance interrupts. During this Vincent is going to look like he can hear something. That thing is avona, but probably if it coincides with when the narrator references him that would be good. 

Narrator:
	Let me interrupt this tale to tell you another
	Young Vincent and Goram sit with their mother 
	and discover. In a book, 
	of a monster who guarded treasure.
	So with pleasure they sit, listen and take measure 
	of this ancient fable, of a giant (soon to be deceased)
	unable to overcome the beast. 
	In search of riches, into the wood.
	Following tracks to where the monster stood. 
	Trying to stay silent the best that he could.
	The beast was dark as night, muscles of great might 
	moving beneath scaled skin. It’s eyes reflecting moonlight.
	Sharp teeth warning of a powerful bite. 
	The giant, spotting the treasure, began preparing to fight.
	The shadowy creature seeing the giant looking resolute
	Aggressively charged at him to protect its loot. 
	Screaming roaring screaming clawing. And then all was mute.  
	
	Its an old story that giants like to tell
	In order to repel their children
	from straying away from forest paths. 
	But as we know; Goram doesn’t do things by halves
	Goram turns to his mother and says
	“Mother, I am much tougher than he”    [could actually have Goram saying this stuff]
	“Me and Vincent will go get the treasure and then you’ll see”
	“Just how strong this young giant can be”
	“Goram darling”, she replies
	“Don’t be stupid, and besides”
	“These stories just act as guides”
	“No such treasure in the forest lies” 
	“Just stay on the path, don’t stray to the sides”
	“Because I love you. Many a giant goes missing and dies”
	Vincent remains quiet and learns the lesson 
	but that doesn’t lessen that which he takes on principle 
	that is older brother could do it. That he’s invincible. 
	
	Not many months later, on this fateful day
	Vincent and Goram play 
	Led astray. from the path through the trees 
	Vincent pleads “Goram please can we go back 
	“we’re vulnerable, not safe from attack”
	The answer is no 
	Goram has somewhere to go 
	Something to Vincent that he wants to show 
	Tells him to follow, tread slow, and keep his voice low. 
	“Don’t ask questions, just come along”	
	“I’ve managed to prove that mother was wrong”
	And sure enough, as she secretly always knew
	the fable she had read, like many, turned out to be true. 
	There in a clearing the beast patrolled. It’s might untold. 
	Terrifyingly imposing, a fearful sight to behold. 
	and from it’s jaw, fire that would burn and scold.
	With the treasure in a wooden chest by it’s tail
	oh what riches lifting that lid would unveil.

	Goram looks his younger brother in the eye 
	suggests that they try and pry the treasure away from the beast 
	“Come on Vincent, you and I”
	“Goram, I would surely die”
	“and this is why the others think you weak”
	“If it’s respect that you seek don’t be so meek”
	“Imagine the cheers, how the whole town would speak”
	“Of the time that two brothers defeated that freak of a being”
	And now Vincent seeing that what had been said was right
	began to consider if he should fight or take flight. 
	Sure, he had the brains and Goram the might.
	And then his older brother (and father) just might 
	consider him more than a blight on their name.
	But is such a gain really worth an animal maimed ?
	Is the risk worth what treasure’s contained ?
	Is to gamble ones life for such a gain… sane ?
	

DIIING. I made me a metal cliffhanger. [I’m at around 10 minutes here without too much breaking for music, more of just a read through really]

Goram:
	Right, the camp’s done. Now get out of my way, talking rubbish about made up noises. 

Vincent:
	Surely you hear it, it’s the most splendid sound to have ever rung through my ears. It speaks of beauty and of sadness, of divinity and of longing. It gently demands that we follow it, calling out into the wild. And since our camp is complete, follow it is exactly what I intend to do. Your pretending not to hear it and staying here will deprive you of some wonder, what wonder I cannot yet say, but it will be a wonder regardless. 

Goram:
	I cannot hear it ! [pause] Go on then, get out of here. Let me know if it’s anything worth waking up for. 

Vincent:
	And you are determined not to come with me ? It would be a good opportunity to discover, as we are supposed to be doing. If you really cannot hear the noises, do you not wonder why I can? What is it that can emit a sound capable of discriminating between the ear that it lands on. 

Goram:
	It’s just another of your fantasies. Your head has always been full of nonsense, be gone!

[Vincent goes after noise to some music and says the next few things excitedly during the journey]

Vincent:
	That noise is endlessly compelling. Soft and ethereal, it surely emanates from some fascinating source. This new world is already more magical than I could have imagined. 

Vincent:
	and how is it that Goram was unable to hear it. Why is it that it speaks to my soul alone ?

Vincent:
	I’m nearly there now, it grows louder. It’s beauty clearer to me now than ever, and yet it also sounds distressed and melancholic. Like no song I have ever heard before, I wish it never to end. It speaks to me on some other level of existence. 

[And now Avona appears in full for the first time, looking powerful and graceful. Dramatic]

Vincent: [Awestruck, and speechless for the first time, stuttering, affected.]
	Wow. [break as he stares]. Goram has to see this. 

DIIING. Avona dancing and shit. But probably a slightly different pitch this time as the narrator and Avona have a different relationship. 

Narrator:
	and this my friends is Avona. 
	and she is a beauty unmatched
	Being the spirit of a river, she exists in a more heavenly plane 
	than those that are made of flesh and bone. 
	She is captivating and brilliant, powerful and elegant, 
	but not yet free to dance to the sea
	her river waters are trapped by rocks
	and thus so is she.
	Little could the giants have known when they came to this world 
	that they would make contact with some of its very life force. 
	A part of the watery cycle that Vincent had previously marvelled at.
	She is the sublime goddess that should be feeding the ocean.
	And there, trying to signal her entrapment, she had stood in his gaze
	To see her perfection an indescribable honour
	And charmed by her mystical nature 
	Vincent [maybe just “he”] could not help but fall in love with Avona. 

Avona’s dance, Vincent runs to Goram. 
DIIIING. Vincent is with Goram, Avona is gone. 

Vincent: [Shaking Goram awake] 
	Wake up, come quick, you have to see this. 

[Goram pushes Vincent away as he wakes and makes a grumbling noise, Vincent stumbles back a bit]
	
 Vincent:
	Goram, I’m not imagining things. That noise. That noise has an indescribable creator. 

Goram: [once again pushing Vincent]
	Get lost! 

Vincent:
	But she is perfect. 

Goram: [interrupts] 
	I’m trying to sleep! [pause as Goram processes]. Hang on, she you say ? She? 

Vincent: 
	Yes she, come and see for yourself. How happy I would be to be the subject of this perfection’s affections. You have to come see her. 

Goram:
	I will come and look at your woman, not that anyone describable as perfection would ever be interested in you. In fact, I suspect, like the sound that you say she makes, that she isn’t even real.

Vincent:
	Well that’s just it Goram, she isn’t quite real, but still undeniably present. It’s magical, you should understand better when we arrive, I promise. But fast, less she is gone when we get there. 


[And off they go, though likely not as fast as Vincent might like, get there]
Goram:
	Fancy that, you weren’t wrong after all. It is quite the thing. looks like there’s finally something on this planet worth looking at. though if I can’t get to see it properly i’m not standing around here waiting. 

[Goram looks to Avona]

Goram:
	Hello there! [pause] Welp, doesn’t look like she has anything to say.

Vincent:
	Surely you can hear her calling out now ?

Goram:
	No, of course I can’t. The only sound around here is your annoying voice. 

Vincent:
	You’re missing out like you wouldn’t believe. Imagine it like this [hums along], but so much more wonderful and angelic.

[Vincent does some more huming along, Goram sighs]

Vincent: 
	Oh, it’s such a lovely sound Goram. [humming] Maybe if you sing along with me your ear might develop the feeling for the sound and you will be able to hear it. 

Goram:
	You can get lost with your poncey songs. 

[Goram goes off to the other side of the stage sits on something and just looks on at Vincent singing, chipping in and taking the piss or explaining his motivation for his lines. Goram can hear Vincent, Vincent cannot hear Goram. I picture it, Vincent to the left of stage, Avona in the middle and Goram to the right.]


SONG TIME GUYZ ! . 
[At the end of the song, Avona has stopped dancing and appears spent at her struggle to escape]


Vincent:
	Goram, I know you claim you cannot hear her, but despite the beauty of her voice, there is also distress. Something is wrong, and just maybe we were sent here by fate so that we can help. 

Goram:
	Fate has nothing to do with it, we’re here because you insisted on following some sound off into the wild. and yes, it is a sightly being, but i’ll be damned if i’m going to waste my time worrying about whether it is comfortable or not. Looks pretty free to me, dancing around the place. 

Vincent: 
	But that very movement, though flowing, is also constrained, like she longs to reach out further still. And the sounds that she emits stir something in me. Thoughts of her needing unleashing summon themselves into my head as if from nowhere, like an impulse from the gods. 

Goram: [Mocking, offhand]
	and the god of not having to listen to complete hogwash has sent me the impulse to knock you down. Who’d’ve thought, our little Vincent, in touch with the other side. 

Vincent:
	I don’t claim to understand it any more than you Goram, but the message is undeniable and grows clearer still. 

Goram:
	and how do you suppose you free it Vincent ? I see no chains to pull loose.

Vincent:
	I..I don’t know. Let me think.

Goram:
	All you ever do is think! I’ve had enough of this, I’ll be at the camp resting.

[Goram leaves, some time passes as Vincent looks thoughtful] 

Vincent: [Semi to Avona]
	I am at a loss. I know I must help, but I cannot think how. If I only better understood your nature, then I might guess what it is that you need. 

[Thinks on Avona]

Vincent:
	It is clear to me that you are integral to this planet, part of its composition. Though, you are not rigid and tough like the land. The sounds that you bring are far too soft to be associated with something so hard. Yet you are powerful also, something far greater than the wildlife that cling to this planet, something more eternal. 

Vincent:
	Perhaps then you represent the wind. The way you dance through space has that same element of ceaseless activity to it, as if you do not know what it is to stop. [Thinks, and counters his argument with a sigh] But when is the wind ever constrained, it is free to move as it wishes, to go where it likes. No there is something else that you remind me of, something I have overlooked. 

[Watches Avona for a bit longer]

Vincent:
	The sea! You have the same power, the same flowing nature. Of course, both you and the sea, fascinating and unpredictable. Hypnotically swaying to and fro. But you are a long way from the sea here [more thinking] you must be the spirit of a river, it being comprised of the same matter. and yes, I see that no waters flow across the land here.

[Vincent hits rock for first time. Water starts to bubble (with noises), the source of the river, Vincent is beaming, happy bloke. Avona looks pleased. ]

Vincent:
	As I had thought! I’ll dig you a path all the way from where we stand to where the waters lap agains the shore. Just wait, you won’t be in distress for too much longer. I’m not known to be the strongest of giants, in fact most think me weak, but none of that matters, I’ll strain harder than I ever have to remove this repressive rock.  

[Vincent gets digging and we have a suitable amount of time of digging music] 

DIIIIIING. Here comes our number one boi. 

Narrator: 
	Back to the young giants, there, defiant 
	of what their parent’s always say 
	Don’t stray away from the marked way 
	through the forest. But despite this wish
	Goram does relish the chance to steal the riches untold, 
	that that wooden chest surely must hold. 
	Though even he is not so bold as to face the dragon alone
	But Vincent’s feet are cold, “all he does is moan”
	So to hone in on Vincent’s fantasies
	That other giants will fancy he more than just lame
	Goram persuades that with victory will come fame. 
	And that way his arguments framed
	Vincent begins to think the same.
	Considering the duel, still scary and cruel
	The young giant makes the choice of a fool
	Vincent, on that spot, standing surrounded by trees…
	Agrees. 

	“Right”, he began, “here’s the plan
	Goram, you’re the point man
	Distract that dragon the best that you can.
	Stay out of it’s wingspan, it’s knock is stronger than even you can claim
	and beware that flame. please! It must burn at 2000 degrees. 
	Meanwhile I’ll squeeze through the trees, quiet as the breeze,
	and ease open the chest. 
	Once we are with the riches blessed, the task done
	the beast dispossessed will get angry, so run!”
	Goram would rather brawl, 
	but gives in when Vincent insists the monster would maul him apart. 
	After all he was the strong one and Vincent the smart. 
	The giants take heart. 
	Each ready to play their part.
	The operation about to start. 
	
[An interruption of the narrator’s flow]	

Goram:
	What’s this you are doing brother ? Finally decided to get strong ?

Vincent:
	She’s a river. Separated from the sea, I’m uniting them. 

Goram:
	A river ? You’re either blind or mad, I’ve seen a river before, and that is not a river. 

Vincent:
	Not the physical manifestation itself Goram, but the spirit of a river. Her fortunes being closely interconnected with the flowing waters she represents. 
	
Goram:
	ahaha, well, if you’re hoping to get all the way to the sea, it’s going to be a while at that rate. Why do you dig so slow ?

Vincent: 
	I’m going as fast as I can! It’s exhausting, and the rock is hard. 

Goram:
	More like you are soft. This is how it should be done, look how I can dig ! 

[Goram punches successfully away in the wrong direction]

Vincent: 
	Well you may as well dig in the right direction if you’re going to show off and belittle me. 

[Goram continues to dig for a bit, before laughing a goodbye and leaving]

Goram:
	nah, I’d rather sleep. I look forwards to seeing your freshly built muscles. 

[And back to narration] 
Narrator:
	Goram, ready to bout 
	Stood out into the clearing
	Let out a shout, and the beast hearing 
	began nearing with clout. 
	Vincent, shaking, went round the back,
	making his way towards the treasure as Goram dodged each attack. 
	And with a lack of courage snuck past the dragon. 
	Quickly. Not wanting the affair to drag on. 
	Not as quietly as he should have done. 
	And now with the riches in reach 
	A twig snaps. The beast becomes aware of the breach. Makes a turn. 
	Each brother looks at the other with concern and panic. 
	The monster manic, it’s throat volcanic, opens its jaw
	a gigantic fireball sours in Vincent’s direction. 
	He ducks the ejection, but it’s projection, with the chest makes connection. 
	Now the beast charges, snatches the giant and slams him to the mud.
	Out trickles blood. 
	The smallest sound, and there lay Vincent bound. Pinned to the ground. 
	
	And so here we have Goram’s choice
	The chest aflame and his brother in pain. 
	Vincent’s safety versus riches and fame. 
	Option one. 
	Put aside his thirst, put Vincent first. 
		Assuming that his brother wouldn’t be strong enough to escape alone, and ignoring the now depleting treasures, Goram would choose to go to where his brother and the monster thrashed. Using all his brutish straight to land a powerful blow on the beast’s side. This ought to be enough to compel it to leave Vincent be. Now, it may choose to retreat, or it may refocus its efforts onto Goram. Not knowing the exact magnitude of its strength, Goram could only hope he would be a good enough fighter to defeat the dragon while Vincent would no doubt flee. Once this task was finally completed the chest could be put out, and what charred pieces of the treasure remained, if any did remain, could be salvaged. Likely worthless and certainly not impressive. 
	Option two. [Narrator reads this in a seething, bitter way]
	Choose wealth, let Vincent fend for himself.
		Goram would choose to first make a dart to the chest, quickly putting out the flames in order to protect the valuable treasure within. These safe, his reputation would be secured. Goram, the giant who succeeded where those in fables did not. Only then, with the treasure no longer taking damage and tossed away from harms way would Goram turn to helping Vincent. Maybe Vincent would manage to escape himself, and if not maybe there would still be time to look out for him after the treasure was secured. An unlikely occurrence, though Goram’s judgement is clouded by thoughts of wealth. Vincent was already clearly in pain, and not exactly renowned for his fighting ability. 
	The choice is clear to you and I.
									
	Urgh, here he comes approaching Vincent. 
	There, still digging hard at the rock
	Each strike makes hardly a dent 
	and he’s not in the mood for Goram to mock him. 
	Avona must be set free. 
	She must flow to the sea. 
	Goram’s feeling bored. 
	Vincent wants to plea for help with the gorge. 
	He’d only be ignored. 
	[Small pause]
	Now watch and see. 
	Heartbreak can be more cutting than the sword. 

	
DIIIING.
[maybe Goram can be seen getting agitated by banging noises]
[Goram turns up again ?, Vincent is exhausted and near breaking]

Goram:
	Vincent, I see that you continue to work away, but you don’t seem to have done much. There is nothing to do here, stop your banging and come back to the camp. 

Vincent: 
	As I said before, this is important, but it is hard for me, my muscles ache. [Hinting for help?]

Goram:
	I understand, I understand. We can’t all have the stamina of a god, maybe it’s all too much for you.  

Vincent:
	But I cannot stop, I must guide the way. It is a crime to deny such beauty its purpose. 

Goram: 
	You don’t even know what you’re doing. Who has told you to do this ? 

Vincent: 
	I am compelled by fate. My thoughts are full of the spirit’s magnificence. I feel in my soul that she belongs with the sea. Why else would we have arrived here but to help her escape her 
captivity. 

Goram: 
	ha. Vincent, you have always took on more than you can handle. Remember that time you got me to fight that beast in the woods, and see how that turned out. 

Vincent: [exasperated]
	That isn’t what happened at all!

Goram: 
	Calm down brother. I only bring it up because I don’t wish you harm. Just wait a while, she's not going anywhere. Not with you digging like that. You shall get to touch your woman once she is free.

Vincent: 
	This isn’t about touch Goram, it’s more than that, more than physical. I feel a deep connection with her. You just don't understand how she sets something alight within me. How she warms my soul.

Goram: 
	Well no, I don’t. [Pause, Vincent looks super tired] But Vincent, my brother, you are tired, you would get more done if you were rested. 

Vincent:
	Maybe you are right

Goram:
	Yes [obviosuly]

Vincent: 
	 I am awfully fatigued. Thank you Goram, I shall be able to work harder tomorrow. [looks to the water] I am sorry, I’m just too tired. But I shall be better tomorrow, you will not be denied your freedom for too long. It must be terrible to be constrained by all this stone. 

[Vincent goes off to rest]		

Goram: 
	Finally some quiet. All that banging does my head in. I don’t know how Vincent comes up with these plans of his. Has he ever been told that moving the water to the sea will do any good? No he hasn’t. Has he any idea about what this thing even is ? No, he doesn’t. It’s all made up in his mind. It’s so boring for me, my brother gone off on this mission while I knock around the camp. I just wait to go home. I’ve got things to do there. People that respect me. Think me strong. 
	and to make up a task that he is so useless at is crazy. He digs like he is not a man, making almost no distance. I could finish this job that will take him days in minutes. Why he didn’t instead come up with that the thing needed singing to, or poems written about it, or flowers given to it i’ve no idea. At least then he would be enjoying himself while wasting his time. And it would be over quicker. 
	It annoys me that he cannot just do as I do, it is far better not to worry about things that are beyond understanding. Yes it is pretty, and don’t get me wrong, I can see why he wants to touch it. But even that it is trapped is probably untrue too, yet more imagining from my brother. It’s all a waste of our time, when we should be relaxing. I just want to do the things giants are supposed to do and I have to put up with this… [Pause, looks to be in thought.]
	Maybe then it is best if I just finish this job. Vincent will see that he was full of rubbish and we can stop wasting our time. Once he sees that this thing isn’t even trapped and it’s all in his head he’ll do as I tell him again. He might even shut up with his fancy words for a while too. [proudly]. I am so much stronger than him. I would finish the job in no time at all. 
	That settles it then. I will dig this valley. 

[I suppose the upcoming is pretty musical all in all]
[Goram gets smashing]
[Avona is freed and begins to dance]	

Goram: [Reasoning]
	[Laughs] Vincent was right, looks like this thing did need digging out to the sea after all. 
	And now that I think about it, it was me that did most of the work. Me who pounded through all that rock. 
	She ought to be mighty impressed with how quickly I did it. That must be what the dance is, some kind of reward for my efforts. It really is good looking… Really good looking. 
	And now that it is free, it’s free to be touched. Vincent is strange, saying that it is not about touch. if he doesn’t want to touch it, then I don’t see why I shouldn’t. And wouldn’t I like to, that would help with the loneliness on this planet. Really really really good looking. [In a sort of lusty power way]
	Yes he talks on about how perfect it is, but has done the same about every blade of grass we have come across. No, I don’t think he would really mind, he has never seemed bothered when I got the good looking girls at home. 
	and besides, he’s asleep.

[Goes to touch shoulder, Avona makes similar distressed version of sound as she did when trapped, and moves away from his hand] 
	
Goram:
	huh? [Confused about rejection]

[Goram and Avona’s dance, Goram sort of forcing himself on her]
[Vincent wakes]
Vincent:
	Her noise, it is more pained than ever. She must be distressed that I was unable to finish the valley. I knew I shouldn’t have stopped toiling at my task, I have let her down and shall do so no longer. 



		tell, bell, hell, gel, fell, well, repel
		path, half, darth, laugh, calf, 
		replied, aside, side, tried, guide, lied, cried, relied, decide, died, beside, tied, 
		adds, bads, fads, pads, dads, 
		there, dare
		gained, maimed 
		year, here, appear, dear, gear, rear, queer, tear, dear, deer, near, 
		beast, feast, priest, creased, deceased, unleashed, 
		feet, beat, seat, neat, wheat, heat, meet, elite, unseat, 
		patrolled, untold, unfold, 
		tail, unveil, prevail, stale, fail
		brother, mother, lover, bother, uncover, smother, 
		eye, try, pry, why, rely, cry, testify, decry, lie, hi, die, fry, sigh, sty, my, untie, justify, 
		seek, meek, weak, beak, reek, leek, speak, peak, geek, creak, 
		being, seeing, peeing, 
		sane, main, vein, spain, lame, rain, wane, pain, 
		tree, we, agree, sees, be 
		giant, defiant, 
		wish, dish, relish 
		alone, phone, bone, stone, grown, moan
		told, fold, hold, gold, mould, bold, cold, 
		fame, tame, lame, rain, gain, came, same, 
		battle, rattle, 
		plan, clan, man, ran, tan, ban, pan, nan, can, van, 
		deal, steal. 


Narrators last bit:
Goram can only understand that which is physical. 
It is for this reason that he could not hear avona’s cry 
It is for this reason that he and Vincent have had to die. 
The brute had no understanding of what Avona meant to Vincent
No understanding that a soul as well as an arm could be broken. 
Goram doesn’t look out to screw Vincent over, and when the threat is a monster he knows to help, bud has no comprehension of his actions in an emotional plane. 
